---
title: 'One way to use zettelkasten as a developer'
date: '2024-01-28 16:04:00'
type: 'non-tech'
note: 'literature'
tags: ['#note-taking']
---

# Note

Zettelkasten, or ZK, is a smart note taking system people use to organize and connect notes to find new ideas. ZK is often used for people in the research field and it is not common for a developer to use this system. However, there are engineers utilizing ZK to accommodate their needs when programming.

> - I need to know how to do something;
> - I need to know how a specific thing is implemented in the given framework, programming language, etc.
> - I need to know the definition of a pattern, concept, etc.

One way to utilize ZK as a developer is to use it as a personal wiki. When you forgot about the pointer in C or a script to display the date in JavaScript, you can visit your ZK
and search for your atomic notes in C or JavaScript. If there is one, you're set to go. If it doesn't exist, after you have done some research, you can create a note, add the snippet of code with the explanation and link it to where it relates to such as `C`, `pointer`, `JavaScript`, or `Date Class`.

> - abstract concepts - ideas, definitions, patterns, etc
> - implementations - APIs, scripts, documentation of functions and keywords, etc
> - HowTo's - concrete solutions and approaches

You can also separate the snippet of the code and the explanation into two notes and link them separately if you want to: _implementation_ and _concept_.

This way, when you encounter similar topics in other languages in the future, you'll be able to find the similarity or differences between the language.

# Reference

- https://noniin.antville.org/stories/2288458/
