---
title: '[Retrospect] January 2024'
date: '2024-02-01 11:59:00'
type: 'published'
---

# Farewell, January.
## 💡 What was the goal?

Well, this is the issue. I had no goals to work for. I vaguely said I'm going to work on the project, I'm going to apply for the jobs, and study React, and so on. But none of them were concrete; none of them were planned. It's really just me saying bunch of random things but not actually doing. How are you gonna lose weight if you say, "I'm going to lose 20 pounds" while slamming the whole pizza down to your throat?

So, I'll need to set up a proper plan for the month. Really do need to think of what I want to achieve. Do I want to focus on the web design, programming skills (be specific), doing projects, like what do I want to do. That's going to be the number one.

Then, I'll need to break it down into smaller steps. Otherwise, it's going to end up just like the previous month, not doing anything. I realized this recently but I tend to get overwhelmed when there are too many options for me to choose from. I end up not choosing anything.

In summary, I need to decide what I want to achieve this month and come up with a plan to win the race.

## 📚 What did you learn?

I can't think of anything. But what I learned from this (me not remembering anything), is that I should take a note of what I'm doing daily. I do have daily notes but it wasn't working. Perhaps, it has nothing to do with documenting my day. It was just nice looking template to show off to people. 

I went back to my old setup of obsidian and found some. So, I'm going to list some of the things I learned or studied (I'm probably gonna need to restudy these...):

- Border gradient - Animating gradients using CSS
- CSS perspective
- An algorithm to find the pattern of repeated substring
- Design Pattern - Command Pattern (Behavioral)

Wait is this it? What a tragedy.

## 🤖 Any new tools to introduce?

- [터닝 (Turning)](https://www.turning.kr/) - iOS / Digital detoxing app that helps reducing the time spent on mobile devices or apps specifically.
- [Zed](https://zed.dev/) - Open source / code editor from the creator of Atom and Tree-sitter.
- [Cursor](https://cursor.sh/) - Basically VS Code with AI.
- [ScanTexter](https://scantexter.com/) - iOS / Allows you extract texts from an image.
- Obsidian Plugins
	- [Code Emitter](obsidian://show-plugin?id=code-emitter) - used to run the code on the document.
	- [Checklist](obsidian://show-plugin?id=obsidian-checklist-plugin) - combines checklists across pages into the sidebar.
	- [TimeStamper](obsidian://show-plugin?id=obsidian-timestamper) - inserts a predefined date or/and time.

## ⏳ Did you effectively manage your time?

Not at all. I watched too much YouTube and did too much of SNS. I should come up with a way to effectively utilize my daily note, because this is where I'm planning to write my todos. Also, I need to learn how to be distract-free and focus on my tasks. But how do you learn this.. you just gotta do it. Suck it up!

## 😄 Good job, Jii!

- I managed to handle the issue with our fridge! The freezer was broken so I tried to fix it but it didn't work. I ended up going to Lowes and bought a new one with a great deal since the new years deal was going on.
- I got myself out of the trouble by spotting the job scam (well GG to my personal identity though).
- Despite receiving countless rejection letters, I didn't fall down.
- I updated my blog concept and design. I think I'll be able to write more with less pressure.
- Joined a "100 Day People Sketch" challenge. This will act as some sort of a fuel for me to move forward with other stuff as well.

## 😡 Boooo, Jii!

- I told myself that I was gonna throw 1 hour of practicing shinobue every week, but I failed to do that. In fact, I haven't even touched on it.
- I haven't finished a single Udemy courses I bought beginning of the year. 
- I failed to start on my new portfolio.
- I failed to keep a promise of doing daily leetcode.
- I told myself to study different React state management tools (e.g. Redux, Jotai, Zustand, and Recoil) but I haven't done it.
- I was going to translate tech articles written in English to Korean in my blog, but that also failed.

## 👀 Other

I watched Japanese anime 'Golden Kamuy' with my partner. We watched the whole season available on the Crunchyroll, but unfortunately the story is not yet finished. I think the next season will be the final. I love this character, Shiraishi. So child-like and dumb, yet becomes very serious and reliable when it comes to his speciality. What a nice guy. 

Then we started watching 'Hinamatsuri' because my free-trial is still alive. Despite the main character being 'Hina', I can't help but to think that the other character 'Anzu' is the actual main character. She's basically how we live our life. We make mistakes, learn, and become aware of the importance of people and the fact that we are the member of the community.

---

# Hello, February.

## 💡 Goals

I'm going to do the [30 days of JavaScript](https://leetcode.com/studyplan/30-days-of-javascript/) challenge from LeetCode. Starting today (February 1st), I should be able to cover all of it despite this month being less than 30 days.

I'm gonna set a goal of learning two different design patterns every week and post it in my personal blog. That gives me around 3.5 days for each pattern. I'm going to utilize these websites: [patterns](https://www.patterns.dev/), [Source Making](https://sourcemaking.com/design_patterns), and [Refactoring Guru](https://refactoring.guru/design-patterns).

For my front-end skills, I'm going to familiarize myself with GSAP more and start touching on the three.js. Regarding GSAP, there are 15 short tutorials that I've found. I'm gonna first finish doing these. For three.js, forget about learning the whole thing, just look at tutorials and see how it works. Try it.

I'm gonna get used to these four state management tools in React: Redux, Recoil, Jotai, and Zustand. Then I will compane these and then choose one to carry on with a project. Speaking of a project, let's come up with a new side project that utilizes both front and back. I need to practice using databases and user auth. Try incorporating the SNS login.

Finally I'm gonna try my best to put at least 15 minutes of practicing shinobue and reach for the total of 1 hour practicing per week.

If I can manage to do everything I mentioned above, I will consider adding the web design and Figma (Udemy) to the list. We'll see how it goes.

